federalist 25 the same subject continued
the powers necessary to the common
defense further considered
from the new york packet friday december
1787 hamilton to the people of the state
of new york
it may perhaps be urged that the objects
enumerated in the preceding number ought
to be provided for by the state
governments under the direction of the
union
but this would be in reality an
inversion of the primary principle of
our political association as it would in
practice transfer the care of the common
defense from the federal head to the
individual members
a project oppressive to some states
dangerous to all and painful to the
confederacy
the territories of britain spain and of
the indian nations in our neighborhood
do not border on particular states but
encircle the union from maine to georgia
the danger though in different degrees
is therefore common and the means of
guarding against it ought in like manner
to be the objects of common councils and
of a common treasury
it happens that some states from local
situation are more directly exposed
new yorkers of this class upon the plan
of separate provisions
new york would have to sustain the whole
weight of the establishment requisite to
our immediate safety
and to the immediate or ultimate
protection of her neighbors this would
neither be equitable as it respected new
york
nor safe as it respected the other
states various inconveniences would
attend such a system
the states to whose lot it might fall to
support the necessary establishments
would be as little able as willing for a
considerable time to come
to bear the burden of competent
provisions the security of all would
thus be subjected to the parsimony in
providence or inability of a part
if the resources of such part becoming
more abundant and extensive its
provisions should be proportionally
enlarged
the other states would quickly take
alarm at seeing the whole militia force
of the union in the hands of two or
three of its members
and those probably amongst the most
powerful they would each
choose to have some counterpoise and
pretenses could easily be contrived
in this situation military
establishments nourished by mutual
jealousy would be apt to swell beyond
their natural or proper size
and being at the separate disposal of
the members they would be engines for
the abridgement or demolition of the
national authority
reasons have been already given to
induce a supposition that the state
governments will too naturally be prone
to a rivalship with that of the union
the foundation of which will be the love
of power and that in any contest between
the federal head and one of its members
the people will be most apt to unite
with their local government
if in addition to this immense advantage
the ambition of the members should be
stimulated by the separate and
independent possession of military
forces
it would afford too strong a temptation
and too great a facility to them to make
enterprises upon and finally to subvert
the constitutional authority of the
union
on the other hand the liberty of the
people would be less safe in this state
of things than in that which left the
national forces in the hands of the
national government
as far as an army may be considered as a
dangerous weapon of power
it had better be in those hands of which
the people are most likely to be jealous
than in those which they are least
likely to be jealous for it is a truth
which the experience of aegis has
attested
that the people are always most in
danger when the means of injuring their
rights are in the possession of those of
whom they entertain the least suspicion
the framers of the existing
confederation fully aware of the danger
to the union from the separate
possession of military forces by the
states
have in express terms prohibited them
from having either ships or troops
unless with the consent of congress the
truth is
that the existence of a federal
government and military establishments
under state authority are not less at
variance with each other than a due
supply of the federal treasury and the
system of quotas and requisitions
there are other lights besides those
already taken notice of
in which the impropriety of restraints
on the discretion of the national
legislature will be equally manifest
the design of the objection which has
been mentioned is to preclude standing
armies in time of peace
though we have never been informed how
far it is designed the prohibition
should extend whether to raising armies
as well as to keeping them up in a
season of tranquility or not
if it be confined to the latter it will
have no precise signification
and it will be ineffectual for the
purpose intended when armies are once
raised
what shall denominate keeping them up
contrary to the sense of the
constitution
what time shall be requisite to
ascertain the violation shall it be a
week
a month a year or shall we say they may
be continued as long as the danger which
occasion they're being raised continues
this would be to admit that they might
be kept up in time of peace
against threatening or impending danger
which would be at once to deviate from
the literal meaning of the prohibition
and to introduce an extensive latitude
of construction
who shall judge of the continuance of
the danger this must undoubtedly be
submitted to the national government
and the matter would then be brought to
this issue that the national government
to provide against apprehended danger
might in the first instance raise troops
and might afterwards keep them on foot
as long as they suppose the peace or
safety of the community was in any
degree of jeopardy
it is easier to perceive that a
discretion so latitudinary as this
would afford ample room for eluding the
force of the provision
the supposed utility of a provision of
this kind can only be found
on the supposed probability or at least
possibility of a combination between the
executive and the legislative in some
scheme of usurpation
should this at any time happen how easy
would it be to fabricate pretenses of
approaching danger
indian hostilities instigated by spain
or britain would always be at hand
provocations to produce the desired
appearances might even be given to some
foreign power and appeased again by
timely concessions
if we can reasonably presume such a
combination to have been formed
and that the enterprise is warranted by
a sufficient prospect of success
the army when once raised from whatever
cause or on whatever pretext
may be applied to the execution of the
project
if to obviate this consequence it should
be resolved to extend the prohibition to
the raising of armies in time of peace
the united states would then exhibit the
most extraordinary spectacle which the
world has yet seen
that of a nation incapacitated by its
constitution to prepare for defense
before it was actually invaded
as the ceremony of a formal denunciation
of war has of late fallen into disuse
the presence of an enemy within our
territories must be waited for
as the legal warrant to the government
to begin its levees of men for the
protection of the state
we must receive the blow before we could
even prepare to return it
all that kind of policy by which nations
anticipate distant danger
and meet the gathering storm must be
abstained from as contrary to the
genuine maxims of a free government
we must expose our property and liberty
to the mercy of foreign invaders
and invite them by our weakness to seize
the naked and defenseless prey
because we are afraid that rulers
created by our choice dependent on our
will might endanger that liberty by an
abuse of the means necessary to its
preservation
here i expect we should be told that the
militia of the country
is its natural bulwark and would be at
all times equal to the national defense
this doctrine in substance had like to
have lost us
our independence it cost millions to the
united states that might have been saved
the facts which from our own experience
for bitter alliance of this kind are too
reason to permit us to be the dukes of
such a suggestion
the steady operations of war against a
regular and disciplined army can only be
successfully conducted by a force of the
same kind
considerations of economy not less than
of stability and vigor confirm this
position
the american militia in the course of
the late war have by their valor on
numerous occasions erected eternal
monuments to their fame
but the bravest of them feel and know
that the liberty of their country could
not have been established by their
efforts alone
however great and valuable they were war
like most other things
is a science to be acquired and
perfected by diligence by perseverance
by time
and by practice all violent policy
as it is contrary to the natural and
experienced course of human affairs
defeats itself
pennsylvania at this instant affords an
example of the truth of this remark
the bill of rights of that state
declares that standing armies are
dangerous to liberty
and ought not to be kept up in time of
peace pennsylvania nevertheless in a
time of profound peace from the
existence of partial disorders in one or
two of her counties has resolved
to raise a body of troops and in all
probability will keep them up as long as
there is any appearance of danger to the
public peace
the conduct of massachusetts affords a
lesson on the same subject though on
different ground
that state without waiting for the
sanction of congress as the articles of
confederation require
was compelled to raise troops to quell a
domestic insurrection and still keeps a
core in pay to prevent a revival of the
spirit of revolt
the particular constitution of
massachusetts opposed no obstacle to the
measure
but the instance is still of use to
instruct us that cases are likely to
occur under our government
as well as under those of other nations
which will sometimes render a military
force in time of peace essential to the
security of the society
and that it is therefore improper in
this respect to control the legislative
discretion
it also teaches us in its application to
the united states how little the rights
of a feeble government are likely to be
respected even by its own constituents
and it teaches us in addition to the
rest how unequal parchment provisions
are to a struggle with public necessity
it was a fundamental maxim of the
lacedemonian commonwealth that the post
of admiral should not be conferred twice
on the same person
the peloponnesian confederates having
suffered a severe defeat at sea from the
athenians
demanded lysander who had before served
with success in that capacity
to command the combined fleets the
lecidemonians to gratify their allies
and yet preserve the semblance of an
adherence to their ancient institutions
had recourse to the flimsy subterfuge of
investing lysander with real power of
admiral
under the nominal title of vice admiral
this instance is selected from among a
multitude that might be cited to confirm
the truth already advanced and
illustrated by domestic examples which
is
that nations pay little regard to rules
and maxims calculated in their very
nature to run
counter to the necessities of society
wise politicians will be cautious about
fettering the government with
restrictions that cannot be observed
because they know that every breach of
the fundamental laws though dictated by
necessity
impairs that sacred reverence which
ought to be maintained in the breast of
rulers towards the constitution of a
country and forms a precedent for other
breaches where the same plea of
necessity does not exist at all
or is less urgent and palpable publius